Title: Spitfire

----

Text: ####Sculpture
The Spitfire, finished in mirror polished stainless steel, is shown as if trailing thick smoke of brushed stainless steel threads as it recovers from a screaming dive to extinguish an engine fire. The plane climbs, and banks sharply to the left to avoid its home city. The threads denote slip stream and movement, giving the sculpture animation and life. At night suitable lighting could add drama to the exhaust and smoke trail. This is a tribute to the essence of the airframe and to the bravery and self sacrifice of the young pilots.  

####Tribute
The aircraft has been positioned to cast it's shadow, which is picked out in grey granite on the open portland stone V shaped podium, to align exactly at midday every May 20th in celebration of RJ Mitchell's birth. The workshops and names of men and women who built, maintained and flew the plane during the war are engraved on the granite in the silhouette of the spitfire itself, as they indeed lived their lives in its shadow. 

####Public Space
The contribution to freedom, democracy and eventual victory made by those immortalised in granite is symbolized by the V for Victory shaped podium. Such is the scale of the aeroplane overhead that a large public space is required in order to stand back far enough to appreciate it. The ground surface slopes upwards, with elliptical wing shaped single steps (for the public to sit on), and culminates at its point in a small building with the story of RJ Mitchell's life engraved upon it. This focal point is suitable for anniversaries and ceremonies, and it's form makes subtle reference to naval shapes in the surrounding harbour. The enclosing wall and focal building are constructed of concrete to merge with the wharf.

####Icon
Any child should be able to draw the distinctive outline in both plan and elevation with only a few easy lines, and the design is appropriate for a V shaped logo and stand alone miniature model due to its stable V base.

####Access
The structure has been looked at by a structural engineer and it is felt that the threads which surround a hidden steel support tube could also be refined to provide maintenance access to the aircraft. There may also be the possibility of public access, subject to adequate means of escape being agreed with the local authority, via the focal building to a viewing platform in the cockpit overlooking the water.